The goal of this project is to use generative neural network technology to learn hard quantum distributions.
The research framework and results are described in reference [1]. It consists of two main parts: generate hard quantum distributions; train generative neural networks to learn these hard distributions.
There are four main scripts used in this projects:
	Fefferman_quantum_distr.py
	QSIM_Beyond_Classical.py
	Qt_distr_VAE.py
	Qt_distr_NF.py


For first part of this project, i.e. quantum data generation, we studied two types of distributions: 
	A) Distributions generated by quantum Fourier sampling by Fefferman and Umans [2].
	B) Distributions generated by qsim quantum ciruits [3].

The script to generate distribution A) is Fefferman_quantum_distr.py, which follows the mathematical formula described in reference [1] and [2]. Set N to the number of qubits to be sampled. In [1], 3 and 8 qubit results are presented. The quantum sampling outputs are saved in "Quantum_Distr_Fefferman_{}bit.json" for further machine learning studies.

The script to generate distribution B) is QSIM_Beyond_Classical.py, which is borrowed from https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/qsim_beyond_classical/ and revised to use SISWAP() quantum gate. In order to generate distributions with different numbers of qubits, you can simply change the size of array "qubits" at the beginning of the script. The quantum sampling outputs are saved in "QSIM_Binary_Data_{}bit_CZ.json" for further machine learning studies.



For the second part of this project, i.e., training generative neural networks, we built two types of NNs: variational autoencdoer (VAE) and normalzing flow (NF).

The script for VAE network is Qt_distr_VAE.py, which trains a VAE network to learn the two types of quantum distributions A) and B). Additionally, it is also tested on 2 simple classical distributions: Guassian and Poisson.
This program provides 4 options of underlying probability distribution data:
    1. Gaussian: set distr = "Gaussian"
    2. Poisson: set distr = "Poisson"
    3. Quantum Fefferman & Umans: set distr = "Quantum_F_U"
    4. Quantum qsim: set distr = "Quantum_qsim"
To run the script, just set N = 3 or 8 for Fefferman; 8 or 12 for qsim, then F5
The program generates the following outputs:
    1. A sample input distribution histogram i.e. Gaussian, Poisson or Quantum
    2. Training loss history
    3. A sample output distribution histogram from test input
    4. Nine output distribution histograms from choosing Gaussian samples of the latent space
    5. Scipy.stats Wasserstein distance and kstest results of the above outputs from 3 & 4

The script for NF network is Qt_distr_NF.py, which trains a NF network to learn the two types of quantum distributions A) and B).
This program provides 2 options of underlying distribution data:
    1. Quantum Fefferman & Umans: set distr = "Quantum_F_U"
    2. Quantum qsim: set distr = "Quantum_qsim"
To run the script, just set N = 3 or 8 for Fefferman; 8 or 12 for qsim, then F5
The program generates the following outputs:
    1. A sample input distribution histogram i.e. Gaussian, Poisson or Quantum
    2. Training loss history
    3. A sample output distribution histogram from test input
    5. Scipy.stats Wasserstein distance and kstest results of the above outputs from 3 & 4


In this repository, the architecture diagrams of the VAE and NF networks are also included as vae.png and nf_architecture.png.

The outputs from above scripts are used reference [1].

This project is inspired by the previous work by A. Rocchetto, E. Grant, S. Strelchuk, G. Carleo and S. Severini [4].

[1] E. Wang and S. Strelchuk, "Learning hard quantum distributions with generative neural networks," 2024

[2] B. Fefferman and C. Chris Umans, "The Power of Quantum Fourier Sampling," arXiv:1507.05592, 2015. 

[3] F. Arute, K. Arya, R. Babbush and e. al., "Quantum supremacy using a programmable superconducting processo," Nature, vol. 574, pp. 505-510, 2019. 

[4] A. Rocchetto, E. Grant, S. Strelchuk, G. Carleo and S. Severini, "Learning hard quantum distributions with variational," Nature, NPJ Quantum Information, vol. 4, no. 28, 2018. 

